>> Steve Kinney: Questions, comments,
concerns, cries of outrage?
>> Speaker 2: You've covered some of,
and the website shows the big use cases,
the famous ones.
>> Steve Kinney: Mm-hm
>> Speaker 2: Is the slacks and
the VS codes and so forth.
On just a more local or
grass roots-y professional level,
what do you see being valid use cases for
desktop software as opposed to
web software that you're actually,
maybe, seeing?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, one of the ones
that we use internally is just, mostly,
internal because, you ever have one
of those projects where it takes 20%
of the effort to have a thing that you
can share with your friends, and 80% of
the effort to polish it up the rest of the
way to actually distribute to the world?
That's a few of them.
So, we have one internal that we all use.
And effectively, when you're writing
markdown files you want to include
an image,
well do you put that in the directory?
So on and so forth, right?
It's a pain in the butt, so
we have one we just drag an image,
you put in your own S3 key and stuff
like that, it goes up to your bucket and
then you get a URL back that you just
paste right into a markdown file.
I think a lot of,
there are these big ones, but
I think the number of small
tools that you can just build,
I have one we have a far too elaborate
system of labels of poll requests, right?
So, one of the ones I'm working on right
now is simply a way to, as I move cars
across a Trello board to, okay, this is
now code reviewed but needs comments.
Because you know in GitHub, how request
changes and how mean it is so nobody uses
it, so it doesn't do anything because it's
red, and the big X, and stuff like that.
So it can be like, more feedback needed,
or work in progress, so
hooking up to the GitHub API, and,
just, having a user interface, so
everyone can just basically throw in
their cues and do something with, right?
There's a lot of times, not having to
actually, have, just using the AWS CLI or
libraries cuz they're is a Node
1 under the hood, right?
Just makes it easier to automate
a lot of things, right?
Especially internal things where getting,
I can run these things from
the command line, I just need a easier
user interface for these things.
I don't want to spin up an entire web
app that I have to get through infosec.
[LAUGH] Right?
I just wanna, the same way I'd run this on
the command line, I just want a slightly
better tool, cuz I think a lot of those,
I think are really useful.
One of one I really love is
this from a few years ago,
my friend was working on this Kickstarter
project called The Public Radio,
which is a mason jar with a little
Arduino in it, and it's effectively,
you can tune it to one radio station,
right?
I assume that if you have a mason
jar radio, it's tuned to NPR.
But thing is, NPR is a different
station wherever you are, right?
And so, it was a node bot thing
with Arduino and no JS power in it.
But asking someone to plug it into the USB
of their computer and have node installed,
and run these commands in
the terminal was unacceptable, right?
So it was a lot easier to just make
a quick Electron app that did this,
ran the same node commands and
did all of the same stuff, but
with a user interface where someone could
just download the app and double click it.
I'm, personally,
I think the big apps make a lot of sense.
And if I was starting a startup,
obviously, I wouldn't have the team for
a Mac app, a Linux team,
and a Windows team, right?
We'd be writing, probably,
an Electron app.
But what I'm more interested in
is the small bespoke ones, right?
There was an emoji picker, right, where
you can just type all the GitHub ones and
get them as Unicode things.
There is a bunch of really
small applications that,
I'm more interested in the little
mini ones that kinda spring up.
Again the, I have this idea for
an app that I could totally build, right?
Again, maybe you don't take it all
the way to the fact that we're
distributing on the app store, right?
But it is a thing that you use or
your team uses or stuff along those lines.
I think that's a really interesting
use case that's more inspiring for
me than the next ID that we're all
gonna build or something like that.
I think all the smaller, for us,
we're used to being able to build
whatever tools we need, right?
We have, a lot of us have front-end jobs,
most of us can get around in Node or
something like that or
at least write a bash script.
But if we need it, a desktop user
interface, we're kinda out of luck.
[LAUGH] Right?
It was just, learn Swift or
C sharp or whatever.
But now the fact that I can just spin
up a thing, opens that last door for
internal tools, which is where
I'm the most interested in it.
>> Speaker 2: How is pushing updates
handled, then, at that point?
If you do updates to your code, how do you
push that out to the rest of your users?
>> Steve Kinney: So,
really nicely is, that is
not a web browser,
despite what one might think,
is this is a, just like we saw crash
reporter, the only reason we didn't
dig deeper into autoUpdater is
because it does involve code setting.
AutoUpdater, basically, is, again, you
spin up another server, and every time it
starts up, it pings that server with
its current version, and depending on
the status code it gets, it will go ahead
and try to download the new version.
I think a 200, don't quote me on this.
The 200 will be like okay, we have
the conversion of 204 as a new version.
I could have that backwards.
But basically it will check that
every time and go ahead and
pull down that application and install it.
And in fact, just a month or two ago,
if it is an open source app, and
you're willing to use GitHub releases,
they actually have a full
auto-update service.
So you don't even have
to run your own server.
Let me see if I can find it real quick.
Yep.
Easier auto-updating for
apps here is basically,
I believe it's update.electronjs.org,
or something along those,
Yeah, update.electronjs.org.
And so you can pull in this MPM module
[INAUDIBLE] Electron update app.
You basically use it, and
it uses their service to handle
all the pushing updates for you.
So you don't have to worry about that.
If it's closed source and
pushing your code to another party is
not going to really work, however,
it's private you gotta figure that
stuff out yourself, but I have,
the the amount of servers I'd code
to push out updates is pretty tiny.
It's, again, this status code.
And then you know the URL for
where I should pull the newest
archive from, right?
And it'll pull that down,
it'll un-zip, it will use Squirrel to
basically, this is saying, scroll and
then Sparkle, I think is the Mac OS one.
Please don't quote me on this.
Basically, that same annoying, there's
an update from this app that you see from
every app, that is an open source tool.
And it is built into Electron.
And, basically,
it does the switch in place.
So it's like, install and restart.
And you install and restart and
you get the newest version of the box.
Slack obviously uses the Mac App Store.
So it's another way to do it.
I don't know how they do it on Windows and
Linux, but
I'm sure they either use Squirrel,
slash, Sparkle and stuff like that.
So there's a bunch of options out there.
Most of them are either open source,
or so proprietary,
like the Mac app store, it's taken
care of for you in that sense as well.
But yeah, you just need to like do all
the certificate stuff and code sign it.
>> Speaker 2: It will
just take some research.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
And like ideally with
Electron Forge they're like,
there's a little bit of hand-waving.
They're like, set up CI that runs the
build process on a Windows, on a Linux,
and a Mac machine and
code signs it for you, right?
I am most experienced doing
the code signing on Mac OS.
Once you've done the code signing,
basically in Electron-packager,
you go in and you do, once you set up
[INAUDIBLE] That's running on that
computer, you do OSX-sign, and
that will code sign them on built.
I think it's a little trick here on
trick here when it's in Linux and
I don't have that enough memorized
to speak and go, it's super easy.
It's a thing, so yeah.
>> Speaker 2: One of the other questions I
had, I was just reading a Reddit thread,
which is dangerous, I suppose, but-
>> Steve Kinney: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: They were just saying that
one of the things about natives apps
versus, maybe, Electron apps is
that they're very memory intensive.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just wondering
if that's just because they're not
running on multiple cores, if it's just,
there are multiple threads, but-
>> Steve Kinney: I mean, Chrome,
itself, is not known for
being polite to your battery, so
now imagine running four Chromes.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Right?
It's not like Slack, and Adam, and Visual
Studio code share the same Electron heart.
They are all their own
individual versions, right?
So they're pretty large files cuz
you're shipping all of Chromium, and
all of Node, right?
They are not particularly memory happy,
right?
Slack is usually the app
that is pegging my CPU.
Now, I don't know.
Visual Studio Code feels great to me,
but I know that for a while, and
this might not be true,
I don't use Atom anymore.
But for
a while Atom was a little rough, right?
And so, yeah, there are tradeoffs, right?
Yes, you can write web technologies
to ship on multiple platforms, but
it's not gonna be as small as
a Swift bundle is going to be.
It's not going to be as memory efficient,
either, right?
And that is, unfortunately,
computer science.
We make these trade offs, and you got
to make a choice is the productivity or
the fact that,
especially if it's an internal tool,
you are never gonna sit down and
learn C sharp today, right?
This app either didn't exist or
it exists on Electron and
maybe it's not super memory efficient.
This is really,
I'm gonna get angry tweets.
I am of the philosophy,
JavaScript was slow until we made it fast,
right?
Generally speaking, that if we all move,
in the same way when JavaScript became
popular then it became fast, right?
If Electron apps really took off,
and a lot of them are, right?
My suspicion is that in a year or
two years,
a lot of that stuff will get handled.
I'm sure the Chromium team doesn't
like the fact that they're
using a lot of memory, right,
and stuff along those lines.
It's like, generally speaking
we optimize for popularity.
It's not that optimized
things become popular, right?
So my general thing is,
what makes you the most efficient?
And this is kind of the rails philosophy.
Like rails is not the fastest framework in
the world, but the idea that developers
are more expensive than more servers,
I think makes sense.
In a certain sense.
Yeah, I'm not gonna lie to you and
say they're particular memory efficient or
small in size.
They're not, right?
But the application might not exist.
Now, we should argue,
should Microsoft be linking bespoke
versions of VS code for every platform?
Yeah, they're Microsoft, sure, right?
Slack, maybe, too.
I don't know.
But for
the internal application
you're gonna build, or
something along those lines, right?
It was either probably not going to
happen or is gonna happen in Electron.
That's my view on that.
And that's it.
Thank you so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]